
# Adjectives and Prepositions

## Grammar explanation
Some adjectives go with certain prepositions. There are no grammatical rules for which preposition is used with which adjective, so it's a good idea to try to learn them together. To help you do this, write new vocabulary in your notebook in a sentence or phrase.
However, there are some patterns that can help you. Let's look at them first. Remember that a preposition is followed by a noun or a gerund (-ing form).

### With at
We use at with adjectives like good/bad/amazing/brilliant/terrible, etc. to talk about skills and abilities.
He's really good at English.
She's amazing at the piano.
They're terrible at organising anything.
I'm not very good at drawing.
### With about
We often use about with adjectives of feelings like angry/excited/happy/nervous/sad/stressed/worried, etc. to explain what is causing that feeling.
I'm angry about the decision.
He's nervous about the presentation.
She's excited about the new job.
They were worried about the exam.
### With of
However, sometimes we use of with feelings.
She was afraid of telling her mum.
I'm frightened of having an accident.
He's scared of flying.
You should be proud of your progress.
### With to
We can use to to show the connection between people or things.
He's married to the director.
I'm addicted to my phone.
I'm allergic to nuts.
It's similar to the old one.
We can also use to to talk about someone's behaviour towards someone else.
They were really friendly to me.
Was he nice to you?
He is always polite to everyone.
She was very rude to the waitress.
Here are some other useful adjectives with prepositions.
### With for
Exercise is good for you.
Stress is bad for you.
The town is famous for its cheese.
I'm responsible for the financial side of the business.
### With in
She's interested in the project.
They want someone who's experienced in design.
I didn't want to get involved in the argument.

## List of adjectives and prepositions
### adjective + about
I was angry about the accident.
She's not happy about her new boss.
Are you nervous about the exam?
angry about
anxious about
enthusiastic about
excited about
furious about
happy about
mad about
nervous about
pessimistic about
sad about
serious about
upset about
worried about
### adjective + at
I'm rather bad at languages.
I'm not good at languages either.
Are you surprised at her success?
amazed at
angry at
annoyed at
awful at
bad at
brilliant at
clever at
delighted at
disappointed at
excellent at
excited at
good at
hopeless at
mad at
present at
shocked at
skilled at
successful at
surprised at
terrible at
slow at
lucky at
### adjective + by
We were amazed by his performance.
They were not impressed by your argument.
Were you surprised by his bluntness?
amazed by
delighted by
disturbed by
excited by
fascinated by
impressed by
inspired by
astonished by
shocked by
surprised by
### adjective + for
You are eligible for bonus pay.
We were not prepared for his answer.
Who is responsible for this?
eager for
eligible for
famous for
grateful for
notorious for
prepared for
ready for
renowned for
responsible for
respected for
sorry for
suitable for
thankful for
### adjective + from
This cake is made from coconut.
The city is not safe from attack.
Is this material free from toxins?
absent from
different from
free from
made from
protected from
safe from
### adjective + in
I am disappointed in you.
He isn't experienced in sales.
Was he successful in his efforts?
disappointed in
experienced in
interested in
involved in
polite/impolite in
present in
skilled in
slow in
successful in
talented in
### adjective + of
He's afraid of failing.
She's not capable of caring for herself.
Was it silly of me to try?
afraid of
ashamed of
aware of
capable of
certain of
conscious of
envious of
independent of
jealous of
kind of
nice of
proud of
scared of
silly of
sweet of
typical of
### adjective + to
She was addicted to alcohol.
I'm not allergic to milk.
Are they related to each other?
accustomed to
addicted to
allergic to
committed to
dedicated to
indifferent to
kind to
married to
opposed to
receptive to
related to
similar to
superior to
unfriendly to
### adjective + with
I am blessed with robust health.
Unusually, the town was not crowded with tourists.
Are you familiar with the controls?
angry with
associated with
bored with
blessed with
confronted with
content with
crowded with
delighted with
disappointed with
fed up with
familiar with
furious with
ok with
pleased with
popular with
satisfied with

### Exercises:
- I'm bad at reading T&Cs
- I'm skilled at Data Modelling
- I'm skilled at working in complex environments with tight deadlines
- I'm delighted by the company's ways of working and technologies used. 
- I'm am certain of my decision to work at this company 
