# Prepositions of place 'in', 'on' , 'at'

## Grammar explanation

We can use the prepositions in, on and at to say where things are. They go before nouns.

- I am in the kitchen.
- My dog likes sleeping on the sofa.
- The children eat lunch at school.

### in
We use in to talk about a place that is inside a bigger space, such as a box, a house, a city or a country.

- The clothes are in the wardrobe.
- The children are playing in the park.
- There's a bookshop in the shopping centre.
- My grandmother was born in Sweden.

We also use in with other physical locations such as:

- in the world
- in water / the sea / a river / a lake / a pool
- in the mountains / the countryside / a valley / the forest
- in a car / a taxi

### on

We use on to talk about location on a surface.

- The books are on the desk.
- We live on the fifth floor.
- There are pictures on the wall.
- She likes to sit on the floor.

We also use on for some types of public transport.

- He's on the bus now.
- You can't make phone calls on a plane.
- They go to school on the train.

We also use on for lines (including rivers, borders, streets, etc.) and islands.

- London is on the River Thames.
- The Pyrenees are on the border of Spain and France.
- There's a market on James Street.
- I'd love to live on the Isle of Wight.

### at 
We use at in many common phrases, especially when we are talking about a place for a specific activity.

- I'm at work.
- She's working at home today.
- The children are at school.
- See you at the train station!
- They're at the supermarket.
- I met him at a party.

We also use at for addresses or exact positions.

- I live at 15 Craig Street.
- She's sitting at a desk.
- He's waiting at the entrance.
- Please sit at the back of the room.


### Exercises

- I live on the second floor
- We live at 173 Rosebery Avenue
- We live in London
- She's at the bathroom
- Celina at the office until late
